% CHANGELOG

## TODO

- [ ] provide uniq `flatplan` prefix for all style entries such as divs, classes, etc.
  - [ ] change Pandoc Manifest generation for using new html things
  - [ ] accordingly change `style.css`
- [ ] design PrintBook for managing prints data (DSL manner) to provide prints information on web-site
  - [ ] design data model (will drive DSL development and evolution)
  - [ ] design the component interface for querying prints availability for particular image (:DP2Q1058, :P01013456) 
  - [ ] design DSL for the book management; also serves and event log
        where all data aggregates computed playing log events
  - [ ] design mixing information from other stores, like image metadata, maybe series publicaction to get the editor curated titles, descriptions, tags, location, etc.      
  - [ ] desing CLI query data interface based on image key
- [ ] design PhotoBook (maybe PhotoStore, ImageMetadataRegistry, play with names and choose a short and concise one) to provide image metadata like original image size, timestamp of the shutter click, etc.
  - [ ] design data model
  - [ ] it gets initial metadata by using ExifTool
  - [ ] it mixes information from series publications (flatplan) like loation, title, poetic description
  - [ ] desing CLI query data interface based on image key
- [ ] prepare the `Exposure` Jekyll site for `Zenweb` transition 
  - [ ] ImageMagic adapter as an individual CLI tool component (ImageMaster, ImageManager, ImageArtist, ImageTransformer, Fusion...); adopt the tool for Rake interface
  - [ ] how to port JS, such as `sw.js`, `Todd Hido mosaic`, and `mobile image-rotator`?
  - [ ] how to port CSS for presenting series colage of 5 images?
  - [ ] how to port Lightbox?
  - [ ] redesing `/about` page for mentioning print clearence and some helpful metadata inside html page source?
  - [ ] desing `/print-clearence` page based on PrintBook
  - [ ] design `/prints` page based on PrintBook 

## 2026-07-05

- designed `Model::Base` as ValueObject that mimik `Data#with`
- designed `Dummy` data fixtures module
- designed `Presenter::ConsoleFlatplan`
- designed `Presenter::PandocManifestSerializer`
- designed 'bin/flatplan' and `lib/flatplan/cli`

## 2026-07-04

The project devleops the idea of artistic photo series presentaion (for `Exposure`).

The first goal is to explores a new chapter-based layout where a few chapters can have different styles and visual pauses in between, as well as publicationi "Hero Shot". Then applying the new manifest format for Jekyll `/series/the-serias` page, where it should include HTML content generated by `Flatplan`

The second goal is to enrich images by providing part of Exif and Prints information; add some specific tags to HTML for print collectors, galleries, and media requests. Maybe it's not the subject of Flatplan, but will be placed here and provided inside Series HTML generator.

- designed basic architecture of models, builders, presenters, ports, and services
